WIP intro principles (#44)
InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourceLearningPath: introduction/principles.md

in terms of inner sourcing: The more open it is, the less barriers are put in place for prospective contributors. The less open
it is, the more difficult it becomes for anyone to contribute.

## Transparency

In order for guest teams to be able to contribute meaningfully to a project, the host team must be _transparent_.
This means that guest teams should be able to have an understanding of:

* The product and its direction
* Outstanding feature requirements
* Progress on feature requirements
* Decision making of the host team

When possible, the above should be communicated in such a way that does lend itself to tribal knowledge.

## Prioritized Mentorship

_Mentorship_ from host team to guest team via trusted committers is a key aspect of inner source.
Contributors on guest teams are upleveled so that they understand enough about the host team system to change it successfully.
In the process of doing so, they come to better understand the host team system as a general consumer.
They can use it more effectively and help other consumers to do so as well.

It's critical that this mentorship for contributors is _Prioritized_ by the host team.

> The team strives to make trusted committer time available to mentor guest team contributors _at the time that they need it_ as opposed to when it is convenient.

Reviewer: Suggest rewording for clarity: 
The host team should strive to make time to mentor guest team contributors _at the time that the contributor needs it_ as opposed to when it's convenient to the host team.

Reviewer 2: This edit is actually already included in the current master, thus resolving this conversation.

At times at may be a culture change for engineers on the host team to spend time helping others to code rather than just coding themselves.

> This mentorship is valuable to the individuals involved and the company in general and is worth doing well.

Reviewer: Suggest expanding this thought for better understanding: 
This mentorship is valuable to both the individual contributor and the host, and it is worth doing well. This is relationship between contributors and hosts is one of the key foundations of inner source and it proves to be mutually beneficial, in the long run, by improving both the code and the contributor model.

Author: Agree that it's worthwhile expanding this thought. I've incorporated most of what you've laid out here and added a little more myself. I omitted the section of the "relationship being one of the key foundations..." as it seemed a little redundant to me given the current topic.

Thoughts?

Reviewer 2: I like @KathrynKLewis thoughts here and what is added to the text. The importance of the relationship is also in it's function as a source of the establishment of trust that ultimately may lead to the migration to a *trusted* committer role.

Reviewer 2: Apparently, this change has been integrated with the illustrated change by @demianbrecht already. Thus resolving this conversation.

## Openness

In being open, a project is set up in such a way that contributing is as frictionless as possible.
Projects should be discoverable and well documented.
Anyone within an organization should be able to find them and ramp up without an inordinate amount of direct guidance from host team members.
Host team contact information should be prevalent with as many channels as makes sense for the project.
Host team intentions to inner source their project should be broadcast through relevant organization channels.

By no means is the above an exhaustive list. Project openness will typically be directly related to how successful a project is
in terms of inner sourcing: The more open it is, the less barriers are put in place for prospective contributors. The less open
it is, the more difficult it becomes for anyone to contribute.

## Transparency

In order for guest teams to be able to contribute meaningfully to a project, the host team must be _transparent_.
This means that guest teams should be able to have an understanding of:

* The product and its direction
* Outstanding feature requirements
* Progress on feature requirements
* Decision making of the host team

> When possible, the above should be communicated in such a way that does lend itself to tribal knowledge.

Reviewer 2: @rrrutledge What I did not get here (and probably turned into a sentence that sounded much more harsh than what was intended) was the reference to _'tribal knowledge'_. I was wondering if that could be phrased differently. Maybe _'implicit team knowledge'_ could make that clearer if that is what _'tribal knowledge'_ describes.

> When possible, the above should be communicated in such a way that does lend itself to tribal knowledge.

Reviewer 3: @lenucksi "Tribal knowledge" typically leans towards the core team overall knowledge of the project code and direction that may not be "common knowledge" for those outside of the core team.   I totally get it but it probably should be written in a way that anyone reading the principles should understand without question.

"When possible, the above should be communicated clearly and in details, from teams internal definitions of items to special case scenarios specific to the project, in a manner that can be easily understood to those that are not part of the core team."

?

> When possible, the above should be communicated in such a way that does lend itself to tribal knowledge.

Reviewer 2: Sounds more understandable to me. I turned the suggestion in your comment into a commit suggestion.
I know the terms 'tacit knowledge' or 'implicit knowledge' for something describing similar concepts I guess - would those resemble what you wrote?

## Prioritized Mentorship

_Mentorship_ from host team to guest team via trusted committers is a key aspect of inner source.
Contributors on guest teams are upleveled so that they understand enough about the host team system to change it successfully.

> In the process of doing so, they come to better understand the host team system as a general consumer.

Reviewer 4: `technical artifacts of the project` was what I was imagining.

> In the process of doing so, they come to better understand the host team system as a general consumer.

Reviewer 2: How about adding *software system* to make this clearer then?

```suggestion
In the process of doing so, they come to better understand the host teams' software system as a general consumer.
```

```suggestion
In the process of doing so, they come to better understand the host teams' software product as a general consumer.
```
